README.md, before:

# Aletheia
## Everyone is accountable.

This project aims to track and fight fake news.   
It is a tool for the public that allows in an easy way to check if/when/how a news has been edited.

## Structure

The application has 3 main components:
* frontend (just for demo now, a more complex one is planned for the future)
* REST API (search/scrape/store)
* crawler (this will run costantly in background)  

### Frontend

The scraper use a custom modules for each source (website) configured (set in the /scraper/config.php file).  
You can write your own module, put it into /scraper/modules/ the naming of the module must be: the domain name of the source without "www" and the dot replacing the dot with an underscore (i.e. a module for https://cnn.com would be named cnn_com.php), than add the modules detail into the /scraper/config.php file under the "sources" array (follow the directions in the comment in there).

### REST API

The scraper flow is the following: check if the website is supported, if so it scrapes the page content, than it checks if it is already present a version on the database and saves it as revision if there isn't one or if there is one but the content is different.

### Crawler

The crawler will check out the websites and their articles with a decreasing frequency, i.e. for the first two days after the publication it will check the article every hour, from the third day it will check every six hours, after a week every day and after a month every 15 days.

## API

Documentation still in progress ◔_◔

## Third-party components

Aletheia scraper uses  
* [PHP Simple HTML DOM Parser](https://simplehtmldom.sourceforge.io/docs/) under MIT licence  

Aletheia frontend uses:  
* [jQuery](https://jquery.org/license/) under MIT licence  
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/about/license/) under MIT licence

Commit message:

Second delivery
Crawler optimization, modules optimization, brand new frontend, zencode stuff, general polishing of the code. Blockchain integration still in progress: waiting for SawRoom maintenance to end.

README.md, after:

# Aletheia
## Everyone is accountable.

This project aims to track and fight fake news.   
It is a tool for the public that allows in an easy way to check if/when/how a news has been edited.

## Structure

The application has 3 main components:
* frontend (just for demo now, a more complex one is planned for the future)
* REST API (search/scrape/store)
* crawler (this will run costantly in background)  

### Frontend

The scraper use a custom modules for each source (website) configured (set in the /scraper/config.php file).  
You can write your own module, put it into /scraper/modules/ the naming of the module must be: the domain name of the source without "www" and the dot replacing the dot with an underscore (i.e. a module for https://cnn.com would be named cnn_com.php), than add the modules detail into the /scraper/config.php file under the "sources" array (follow the directions in the comment in there).
From the homepage you can access a page dedicated to each source just clicking on its logo, there you can have an overview with the latest articles and the revisions.

### REST API

The scraper flow is the following: check if the website is supported, if so it scrapes the page content, than it checks if it is already present a version on the database and saves it as revision if there isn't one or if there is one but the content is different.
To improve performances the matching of the content is made by hashing it.

### Crawler

The crawler will check periodically new articles from the source configured, the crawler updater will check out the articles already stored for revision with a decreasing frequency, i.e. for the first two days after the publication it will check the article every hour, from the third day it will check every six hours, after a week every day and after a month every 15 days.

## Blockchain

Periodically aletheia will use ZenRoom (setup on the same server via Docker) to store the scraped contents into the blockchain.
It uses RestRoom to call /scraper/latest and get the hashes of each revision, it stores them and then it calls /scraper/confirm to update the status in the db.
You can find in /zencode the scripts to do so.

## DOCS

Documentation still in progress ◔_◔

## Third-party components

Aletheia frontend uses:  
* [jQuery](https://jquery.org/license/) under MIT licence  
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/about/license/) under MIT licence  
* [htmldiff.js](https://github.com/tnwinc/htmldiff.js) under MIT licence
